# Olink upload
Olink is an multiplex assay for measuring protein biomarkers. Olink panels use the proprietary Proximity Extension Assay (PEA) technology, a unique method where each biomarker is addressed by a matched pair of antibodies, coupled to unique, partially complementary oligonucleotides, and measured by quantitative realtime PCR. This enables a high level of multiplexing while
maintaining exceptional data quality. 

## Olink workflow overview
1. The CIMAC technician who is performing the experiment will download a copy of the Olink metadata spreadsheet template via the CIDC portal.
2. The CIMAC technician will begin populating the metadata spreadsheet. **NOTE** If the biospecimens have not be relabled to use CIMAC ids, then the technician should *digitally* re-label the sample by replacing the native identifiers with the CIMAC ID when loading the samples into the machine.
3. The CIMAC technician will perform the experiment and data analysis. Both the raw CT values generated the Biomark HD and the processed NPX files generated by Olink NPX Manager should be retained.
4. The CIMAC technician or CIMAC bioinformatics support will fill in the columns of the metadata spreadsheet which point to the resultant CT and NPX files.
5. The CIMAC technician or CIMAC bioinformatics support will transfer the metadata and files to CIDC using the command line tool.


## Olink files

Each Olink experiment creates two files, the CT file created from the Biomark HD machine, and the processed NPX file created by the Olink NPX Manager software. One or more of these pairs of files can be uploaded at the same time.

Additionally for studies utilizing multiple batches, a harmonized and combined file can be created by the Olink NPX Manager software. This is usually refered to as the combined NPX file.

Example directory for Olink data transfer:
```
.
├── olink_assay_1_CT.xlsx
├── olink_assay_1_NPX.xlsx
├── olink_assay_2_CT.xlsx
├── olink_assay_2_NPX.xlsx
├── olink_assay_combined.xlsx
└── olink_metadata_090219.xlsx
```

## Olink metadata

The following section details the specific metadata collected for the Olink assay.

<div>
    <iframe src="templates.metadata.olink_template.html"></iframe> 
</div>

### metadata model

### example metadata
Click [here](https://github.com/CIMAC-CIDC/cidc-schemas/raw/master/template_examples/olink_template.xlsx) to see an example of a metadata file.

## Uploading Files

**Start the CLI and use your JWT to log in**
~~~~
cidc login [token]
~~~~

**Run upload command:**
~~~~
cidc assays upload --assay olink --xlsx olink_metadata_090219.xlsx
~~~~

The process will then use the metadata file to upload the required files
